>> Speaker 1: So when you tokenize it,
you're assigning a number to a word or
token, right?
But then through the transformer block,
it's almost like you're
developing like another
layer of meaning to each token,
given the context.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Is that called a vector
that-
>> Steve Kinney: Effectively, right?
>> Speaker 1: The vector-
>> Steve Kinney: The vector is
the number, right?
>> Speaker 1: But
it's just like another number.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Right.
>> Speaker 3: Like bank and bank,
when you token.
>> Steve Kinney: They're the same ID,
always, right?
>> Speaker 1: One number, but
then now you've got like a different set
of numbers given context or something.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, so
in that neural network, for instance,
whatever token has the ID
of 35 is not necessarily
closer to the one that has 36, right?
They are just effectively like numbers,
right?
And then it goes into this giant
neural network where you start out,
where everything is just the relationship
between any two of those IDs is completely
random, right?
And you start training it, which is like,
hey, I'm gonna give you two words.
Guess what the next word is?
You have the third word already, right?
Nope, nope, nope, nope, nope.
So it keeps twisting the knob to
figure out what it needs to do
to get there, right?
And so those initial numbers that
are the IDs of the tokens aren't.
Because they're numbers,
they're not actually meaningful
in terms of the organization.
It's like, what function did you have to
go into to come out with the right answer
for the next one?
And all the weights and
the math is tweaked through
just brute force effectively.
It's like, for the 50 years of AI
research that we've done, we're like,
what if we just brute force it?
And what if we just start
everything random and
just hammer at it, right,
until the weird math?
Cuz it's not like any human
is tweaking that math.
It's just a brute force.
As you random, you turn the dolls in the
giant neural network to the point where
it's like, cool, we've just hammered
at it so hard that now all those dials
from randomly tweaking them at the scale
of billions more than that, right?
Cuz you've got a billion parameters,
I can't do that math [LAUGH].
And you end up with figuring out
where all of them come along to.
So it's effectively, there's no PhD
student writing the math of how you get
robbing banks and
the banks of the Mississippi River.
It is just like you feed it
a whole bunch of strings, right,
which should be the desired output,
right, it takes a guess.
You slap its wrist when it's wrong,
it tweaks some knobs randomly.
You keep slapping its wrist until it
figures out its own algorithm for
not getting its wrist slapped.
>> Speaker 1: So just like you can
get the tokens, you can convert it
back to strings,
can you get those vector numbers out?
So it's gone through, it's processed it.
Now he knows if it's a bank of a river,
a bank.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Can you get those numbers?
I would say, okay,
now this word represents this number.
>> Steve Kinney: You can
see all the tensors.
If it's an open source model, you can.
No you can't for GPT 4.5, but for the open
source models now there's not a lot.
Can you look at them?
Yes.
Will your brain make any sense of it?
So when we get to fine tuning,
what's interesting,
the idea of fine tuning is you take a
pre-existing model that has been tuned and
you just pick up where it left off, right?
And you start feeding it more strings and
you say this is the output
I expect to get, right?
And you tweak those
knobs a little bit more.
But you don't technically need
an open source model because like
OpenAI has an API where they
will allow you to give them
money to have a layer of
fine tuning over theirs.
>> Speaker 1: I had this argument with my
boss about, about we're using Cursor and
it has access to our code base.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: And I'm like,
my understanding was like, okay,
well now we're just taking our code base
and we're uploading it to the cloud and
it's going to train the model and
you know, it's going to influence.
He's like, no, no, it's not like that.
It's sort of a temporary thing that
doesn't actually train the model.
I don't actually trust him.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, those are tricky
cuz on one hand, like Curses of Rapp,
OpenAI, and Anthropic, but at the end
of the day, bytes are going on a wire.
To be clear, there are privacy modes and
stuff like that.
Somebody who previously worked
in an open source project,
I didn't have to flip
any of those switches so
I can't speak to all their various privacy
modes and stuff along those lines.
>> Speaker 1: We use some
particular privacy mode, but
I don't understand how it can
ingest our code and adjust itself,
it would readjust the weights or
whatever to like what comes next, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: And not be changed.
Unless you had your own private VPs
in the cloud that nobody else access,
but I don't think it's like that.
>> Steve Kinney: Well, it's different.
There's whether it's the pre-training or
the fine tuning, slash post training.
Like then you are adjusting the weights
when you go to ChatGPT, for instance.
>> Speaker 1: Yes.
>> Steve Kinney: They're not
changing the weights at that moment.
That is inference.
That is, I'm putting this stuff out.
It's coming out the other end of this,
right?
The act of then, they can then take a
bunch of those strings later and train it.
But like, as you use it,
no one's doing it.
>> Speaker 3: If you start
a conversation with ChatGPT,
how does it remember what you just
typed in like five prompts ago?
>> Steve Kinney: Because you're sending
the whole thing back and forth every time.
>> Speaker 1: You're
sending the whole thing.
You're sending it the entire
conversation every time.
>> Steve Kinney: Yep, that's when you
start blowing up the context window.
If a chat gets too long,
Claude will actually be like,
it's time to start a new chat, right?
Cuz everything's going
over the wire every time.
It's effectively a stateless protocol,
right?
You are sending the entire chat back and
forth every time.
Yep, so it's not remembering,
now, granted,
play a game with ChatGPT later, cuz
OpenAI, you can turn this off, by the way.
OpenAI has a memory feature where they
will also do that when we're talking about
retrieval augmented generation, where they
will also store your stuff and then find.
ChatGPT knows what kinda car I drive,
right?
That's not cuz the model does.
The model doesn't technically know.
They are also storing that
information on top of that and
feeding it in with my prompt, right?
>> Speaker 1: So
it's just like start off on the side.
>> Steve Kinney: Exactly.
>> Speaker 1: And
then it's like, here's context.
>> Steve Kinney: Exactly.
>> Speaker 1: So
how big is the context window?
Like how many bytes?
>> Steve Kinney: Depends on the model.
Gemini and Claude Opus and
03 are like 2 million tokens, right?
Gemini was the big dog for a while there.
Yeah, Gemini was the big dog for
a while there with the 2 million.
And then Opus 4 and 03, I think,
definitely have 2 million.
And wait for the next generation,
they'll be bigger, right?
So a ton of context in there that
they can load in there as well.
But yeah.
>> Speaker 1: But
it's also interesting if you
could run it locally, right?
You had enough GPU to just
run it completely locally,
then you could actually
train it as you go.
It wouldn't have to feed
the context all the time.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: It could just
be learning as you go.
>> Steve Kinney: And I mean, you can
technically do that with like a ChatGPT or
cloud, which is again,
like one of the tricks that people use.
Its not really a trick, it's just a thing,
which is you do basically your version
of that OpenAI memory thing, right?
Where let's say you have a bunch of
data that's important to whatever you're
working on, right?
You vectorize all of that.
So you turn into those numbers,
right, and a vector database,
like Pinecone or Lance DB or
like a thousand other ones, right?
You can basically, you take your text,
you vectorize it, right?
You turn into those numbers,
you store it in this database, right?
And then let's say you
are gonna use ChatGPT, but
you wanted to know more about.
You wanted to know more about your
information because you're trying to query
your own data, right?
What you do is I'm gonna
type something to ChatGPT.
Before it goes to ChatGPT,
you grab it, you tokenize that prompt,
you find all of the strings of
your data that seem relevant, and
then you kind of just like at
the end of your prompt, go, and
here's some context for you, and
you jack your stuff in there, right?
And then it goes,
based on the other stuff in this prompt.
Hello, right.
>> Speaker 1: Okay, so going back to
my original question, which was that,
did they tokenize our entire code base and
then use that as context every
time we ask it a question?
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, they tokenize it
and they send it along with that prompt.
Whether or not they're storing
it is a different question.
Because they have to.
If it's a given question you're asking,
it will scan that file and
the related files and
there's a whole set of heuristics.
It's like the first 250 lines of any
given file, so on and so forth, and
it will vectorize that and
figure out which parts are relevant and
send it along to get you an answer, yeah.
Whether or not they're training the model
on that, they're not technically their
models anyway, so, no, but like, is it
scanning your code base, doing stuff and
sending them over the wire,
absolutely, yeah.
So, yeah, and
then we guess what the next word is.
And then we also, again, in here,
there are mechanisms in these models.
Right, in the underlying architecture
that are also going to try to figure out
how important one given word is in
relation to another one, right?
And so, the is probably not
super meaningful to river
unless you're talking
about Bruce Springsteen.
Right, but generally speaking,
certain words are going to pull
the meaning of those words
closer together than others.
It's probably not strong words, but,
again, thief and bank, river and
bank are probably gonna pull the meaning
of bank towards a given meaning, right?
In that mechanism.